Ops recipes (#88)
giantswarm/harbor-operator-app: docs/ops-recipe/harborDownOrUnhealthy.md

---

title: "Harbor Down/Harbor Unhealthy"

  
---

> This alert fires because a component (eg core, registry, portal etc) of Harbor is either down or unhealthy.

Reviewer: It might worth a single sentence what each components does / is responsible for. For example what does registry do? What is stored in the database? How crucial is is to loose the data on it? Portal is merely the UI?

I think it help evaluating the situation for someone getting paged for it who is not necessarily that familiar with Harbor in the Platform Area.

When a component of Harbor is down it means that the pods are crashing off or failing to create.

When a component of Harbor is unhealthy it means it is failing healthchecks. This could mean that the component either is not running or is is not ready.

The first step is always to check the appropriate logs.

```

kubectl -n harbor-cluster logs harbor-$COMPONENT

```

> Based on what the logs say try to figure out what is causing the error. Usually it will be the result of an improper configuration. Most configuration for the cluster is created in harbors [fullstack.yaml](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-operator/blob/master/manifests/samples/full_stack.yaml). Below are some things to look out for if you cannot find the cause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on what the logs say try to figure out what is causing the error. Usually it will be the result of an improper configuration. Most configuration for the cluster is created in harbors [full_stack.yaml](https://github.com/goharbor/harbor-operator/blob/master/manifests/samples/full_stack.yaml). Below are some things to look out for if you cannot find the cause.
```

2023-02-01T10:24:11Z [ERROR] [/common/utils/utils.go:108]: failed to connect to tcp://postgresql-harbor-cluster-harbor-cluster.harbor-cluster.svc:5432, retry after 2 seconds :dial tcp 172.31.45.132:5432: i/o timeout

2023-02-01T10:24:15Z [ERROR] [/common/utils/utils.go:108]: failed to connect to tcp://postgresql-harbor-cluster-harbor-cluster.harbor-cluster.svc:5432, retry after 2 seconds :dial tcp 172.31.45.132:5432: i/o timeout

2023-02-01T10:24:21Z [ERROR] [/common/utils/utils.go:108]: failed to connect to tcp://postgresql-harbor-cluster-harbor-cluster.harbor-cluster.svc:5432, retry after 2 seconds :dial tcp 172.31.45.132:5432: i/o timeout

2023-02-01T10:24:31Z [ERROR] [/common/utils/utils.go:108]: failed to connect to tcp://postgresql-harbor-cluster-harbor-cluster.harbor-cluster.svc:5432, retry after 2 seconds :dial tcp 172.31.45.132:5432: i/o timeout

```

By running:

`kubectl logs -n harbor-cluster postgresql-harbor-cluster-harbor-cluster`

We can see that the logs show memory is full:

```

FATAL: could not write lock file "postmaster.pid": No space left on device

```

We can adjust the memory by altering the fullstack-deployment manifest and redeploying it.

> ```

Author: This was meant to show terminal output, not yamls. I can remove it from the code block though.

readinessProbe:
  failureThreshold: 3
  httpGet:
    path: /api/v2.0/ping
    port: http
    scheme: HTTP
  periodSeconds: 10
  successThreshold: 1
  timeoutSeconds: 1

```

From here you should increase the faliure threshold to something like 30 or increase the periodSeconds. This will give your pod more attempts to reach a ready state.

During this time you can SSH onto the pod to retrieve more information about what is happening and why your pod may not be coming up.
  

It may be worth checking the kubelet logs on the node to see if there is any information about the healthiness of the pod.

```

kubectl -n harbor-cluster get pods -owide

```

Check what node the pod is associated with and SSH on to it. You can SSH onto the node using these [plugins](https://github.com/luksa/kubectl-plugins).

```
cat /var/logs/syslog | grep harbor

```

**Secrets**

- Check whether there is a a secret in the harbor-cluster namespace containing the AWS authentication for the the s3 bucket used for backups.

- Check if the secret is referenced in your pods definition. This can be configured in your fullstack for launching harbor under: storage -> s3.

> - Check that secrets exist for:

Reviewer: What if they do not exist? Are they managed somewhere? What should they contain?

- harbor-registry-secrets: `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-registry-basicauth`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-registry-http`

- harbor-trivy-secret: `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-trivy`

- harbor-redis-secret: `harbor-cluster-redis`

- harbor-posthresql-secret: `harbor.postgresql-harbor-cluster-harbor-cluster.credentials`

**Namespaces**

- Ensure that the `harbor-operator-app` is created in the `harbor-operator` namespace. This is because helm relies on this specific namespace name for creation of some resources.

- Equally, ensure that the components are being created in the `harbor-cluster` namespace. This is because it is hardcoded into a rolebinding for PodSecurityPolicies.

- These components will be deployments named: `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-chartmuseum`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-core`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-notaryserver`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-notarysigner`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-portal`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-registry`, `harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-trivy`, `rfs-harbor-cluster-redis`.

**Certificates**

> - Check that certificates have been properly issued. In the fullstack.yaml the clusterissuer should be set to `letsencrypt-giantswarm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check that certificates have been properly issued. In the `full_stack.yaml` the clusterissuer should be set to `letsencrypt-giantswarm`.
```

> - The certificate should have the same name as you have given it in the `fullstack.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The certificate should have the same name as you have given it in the `full_stack.yaml`.
```

```

apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1

kind: Certificate

metadata:

name: sample-public-certificate

namespace: harbor-cluster

spec:

secretName: sample-public-certificate

dnsNames:

- core.harbor.localhost

- notary.harbor.localhost

issuerRef:

name: letsencrypt-giantswarm

kind: ClusterIssuer

```

- For example the above configuration should create a certificate called `sample-public-certificate`.

**Ingress**

- Sometimes the portal will 404 and the website will be inaccessible. This might be because the ingress class for harbor harbor core is not set.

```

kubectl edit ingress -n harbor-cluster harbor-cluster-harbor-harbor-giantswarm

```

- Check that the ingress class for harbor has: `ingressClassName: nginx` added underneath spec. If not add it like so:

 spec:

>     ingressClassName: nginx

Reviewer: ```yaml
 spec:
    ingressClassName: nginx
```
